feat(router): update intro, installation, and add linking doc (#23153)
expo/expo: docs/pages/router/reference/search-parameters.mdx

---
title: Using Search Parameters
description: Learn how to access and modify search parameters in your app.
hideFromSearch: true
sidebar_title: Search Parameters
---

import { FileTree } from '~/ui/components/FileTree';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Tabs, Tab } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';

> Search parameters (also known as query params) are serializable fields that can be added to a URL. They are commonly used to pass data between pages.
> 
> Expo Router provides hooks for accessing and modifying search parameters.
> 
> In nested apps, you'll often have multiple "pages" mounted at a time, for example a stack has the previous page and current page in memory when a new route is pushed. Because of this, Expo Router provides two different hooks for accessing search parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Search parameters (also known as query params) are serializable fields that can be added to a URL. They are commonly used to pass data between pages. Expo Router provides hooks for accessing and modifying these parameters.

In nested apps, you'll often have **multiple pages mounted** at the same time. For example, a stack has the previous page and current page in memory when a new route is pushed. Because of this, Expo Router provides two different hooks for accessing search parameters:
```

> - **useLocalSearchParams**: returns the search parameters for the current component. This only updates when the global URL conforms to the route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **useLocalSearchParams**: Returns the search parameters for the current component. It only updates when the global URL conforms to the route.
```

> - **useGlobalSearchParams**: returns the global URL regardless of the component. This updates on every search param change and might cause components to update extaneously in the background.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **useGlobalSearchParams**: Returns the global URL regardless of the component. It updates on every search param change and might cause components to update extraneously in the background.
```

Fixing typo.

> Both hooks are typed and accessed the same way, the only difference is how frequently they update. Consider the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both hooks are typed and accessed the same way. However, the only difference is how frequently they update. Consider the following example:
```

Splitting sentences instead of using `,` as a pause or breakage.

> ## Local vs. Global Search Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Local vs. global search parameters
```

> The following example demonstrates the difference between `useLocalSearchParams` and `useGlobalSearchParams`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below demonstrates the difference between `useLocalSearchParams` and `useGlobalSearchParams`. It uses the following **app** directory structure:
```

<FileTree files={['app/_layout.js', 'app/index.js', 'app/[user].js']} />

<Step label="1">

>     The Root Layout will be a stack navigator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The Root Layout is a stack navigator:
```

Reviewer: [Using present tense for our audience as per writing styleguide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#use-present-tense)

    ```js app/_layout.js
    import { Stack } from 'expo-router';

    export default function Layout() {
      return <Stack />;
    }
    ```

</Step>

<Step label="2">

>     The initial route will redirect to the dynamic **app/[user].js** route, with **user=evanbacon**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The initial route redirects to the dynamic **app/[user].js** route, with **user=evanbacon**:
```

    ```js app/index.js
    import { Redirect } from 'expo-router';

    export default function Route() {
      return <Redirect href="/evanbacon" />;
    }
    ```

</Step>

<Step label="3">

>     The dynamic **app/[user]** screen will print out the global and local search params, and enable pushing new instances of the same route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The dynamic **app/[user]** screen prints out the global and local search param. It also enables pushing new instances of the same route:
```

    ```js app/[user].js
    import { Text, View } from 'react-native';
    import { useLocalSearchParams, useGlobalSearchParams, Link } from 'expo-router';

    const friends = ['charlie', 'james']

    export default function Route() {
      const glob = useGlobalSearchParams();
      const local = useLocalSearchParams();

      console.log("Local:", local.user, "Global:", glob.user);

      return (
        <View>
          <Text>User: {local.user}</Text>
          {friends.map(friend => (
            <Link key={friend} href={`/${friend}`}>
              Visit {friend}
            </Link>
          ))}
        </View>
      );
    }
    ```

</Step>

<Step label="4">

> When the app starts, you should see the following log:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the app starts, the following log is shown:
```

<Terminal cmd={['Local: evanbacon Global: evanbacon']} />

> Pressing "Visit charlie" will push a new instance of `/[user]` with **user=charlie**, and log the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pressing "Visit charlie" pushes a new instance of `/[user]` with **user=charlie**, and log the following:
```

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '# This log came from the new screen',
    'Local: charlie Global: charlie',
    '# This log came from the first screen',
    'Local: evanbacon Global: charlie',
  ]}
/>

> Pressing "Visit james" will have a similar effect:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pressing "Visit james" has a similar effect:
```

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '# This log came from the new, "/james" screen',
    'Local: james Global: james',
    '# This log came from the "/evanbacon" screen',
    'Local: evanbacon Global: james',
    '# This log came from the "/charlie" screen',
    'Local: charlie Global: james',
  ]}
/>

    **Results:**

>     - `useGlobalSearchParams` made the background screens re-render when the search params changed. This can cause performance issues if overused.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `useGlobalSearchParams` made the background screens re-render when the search params changed. It can cause performance issues if overused.
```

>     - Global re-renders are executed in order of the stack, so the first screen re-rendered first, then the **user=charlie** screen re-rendered after.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Global re-renders are executed in order of the stack, so the first screen is re-rendered first, then the **user=charlie** screen is re-rendered after.
```

>     - `useLocalSearchParams` remained the same, even when the global search params changed. You can leverage this behavior for data fetching to ensure the previous screen's data is still available when you navigate back.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `useLocalSearchParams` remained the same, even when the global search params changed. You can leverage this behavior for data fetching to ensure the previous screen's data is still available when you navigate back.
```

</Step>

## Statically-typed Search Parameters

Both the `useLocalSearchParams` and `useGlobalSearchParams` can be statically typed using a generic:

```tsx app/search.tsx
import { Text } from 'react-native';
import { useLocalSearchParams } from 'expo-router';

export default function Route() {
  const { user } = useLocalSearchParams<{ user: string }>();

  return <Text>User: {user}</Text>;
}
```

> Any additional search parameters should be typed optionally:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any additional search parameters are to be typed optionally:
```

```tsx
const { user, query } = useLocalSearchParams<{ user: string; query?: string }>();
```

> When used with the rest syntax (`...`), implement a string array:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When used with the rest syntax (`...`), implements a string array:
```

```tsx app/[...everything].tsx
import { Text } from 'react-native';
import { useLocalSearchParams } from 'expo-router';

export default function Route() {
  const { user } = useLocalSearchParams<{
    /* @info <b>everything</b> will be an array of path segments, even if there's only one */
    everything: string[];
    /* @end */
  }>();

  return <Text>User: {user}</Text>;
}
```

## Updating Search Parameters

> Search parameters can be updated using the **router.setParams** function from the imperative API. In the following example, a text input is used to update the search parameter **q**. This action will not push anything new to the history stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Search parameters can be updated using the **router.setParams** function from the imperative API. The following example uses a `<TextInput>` to update the search parameter **q**. This action will not push anything new to the history stack.
```
